Admissions FAQs — Application Process

When can I apply? The application for admission opens September 1 for the following calendar year (for example, September 1, 2025 for the January, May, and August 2026 intakes).

I am currently pursuing my bachelor's degree. Can I still apply by the Round 1 deadline? Applicants who are currently pursuing their bachelor's degree are encouraged to apply by the Round 2 deadline (January 10) so their fall (or seventh) semester grades are included on the official transcript/evaluation report.

What do I need to submit for admissions consideration? Required application materials vary by program and applicant type (domestic or international). In general, to apply for admission to a master's program, prospective students are required to submit an online application form, undergraduate transcripts, their professional resume, two recommendations, and an essay.

What is the application fee? There is no application fee to apply to Heinz College.

Can I apply to more than one program? Heinz strongly recommends applicants apply to one program. Students interested in more than one program are encouraged to apply to their top choice and can indicate interest in a second program within their optional essay.

Am I allowed to use ChatGPT or other AI tools to write my essay? You should not use artificial intelligence such as ChatGPT to write any portion of your essay. Your essay should contain only true information and your own original content. Submission of false, plagiarized, or AI-generated material may result in automatic denial of admission.

Can I still apply if I missed the application deadline? Heinz does accept late applications to its master's programs. For full-time master's programs, applications are accepted after the published deadlines if space remains in the incoming class; contact the Office of Admissions if interested in applying after January 10. On June 15, 2026, the application system will close for admission to the full-time master's programs' incoming cohort for August 2026. PhD programs do not accept applications after the December 1 deadline.

Can I defer my admission? Deferrals are not common and are considered on a case-by-case basis for one academic year only. Typically deferrals are granted for military/volunteer public service or opportunities with a partner organization.

Admissions FAQs — GRE/GMAT

Are GRE/GMAT scores required? The GRE/GMAT is required for admission to most of the master's and Ph.D. programs offered by Heinz College. Each program has its own policy. In some cases, applicants may qualify for a waiver of the test score requirement and apply without test scores.

What are Heinz College's GRE codes? The institution code is 3085. Scores sent to the main Carnegie Mellon University code (2074) will still be verified.

How old can GRE test scores be? Heinz accepts test scores that are up to five years old at the time of application. ETS will not verify test scores beyond the five year mark.

Can I take the GRE/GMAT after the application deadline? On the application, enter your upcoming test date and registration number in lieu of your scores, and still submit your application prior to the posted deadline.

Admissions FAQs — TOEFL/IELTS

Do I need to take the TOEFL exam? If your native language is not English, you are required to submit an official score report from TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo. Exceptions apply for applicants who have worked or studied for five or more years in specified English-speaking countries, or who studied four years of their undergraduate education in the United States and earned their bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited US school. Applicants must score at or above the posted minimums. Heinz's TOEFL institution code is 2176. TOEFL scores are accepted up to two years old.

Admissions FAQs — Recommendations

How many recommendations are required? At least two recommendations are required to support an application; you may exclude or change recommenders in the online application. Under FERPA, students may waive their right to view letters of recommendation; how you respond to the FERPA waiver question will not impact your chances for admission.

Admissions FAQs — Transcripts and GPA

Is my GPA good enough for admission? Heinz College does not have a required minimum GPA. The average and median GPA for admitted applicants are available on each program page. The Admissions Committee completes a holistic review of each application, considering transcripts, test scores, recommendations, personal statement, and career goals.

Do international transcripts need third-party evaluation? All international academic documents for applicants to master's programs (except Master of Medical Management) must be verified by a transcript evaluation service.

Can you review my application if some materials arrive late? Heinz cannot review an application until all materials are received and processed.
