Strategic Partner Scholarship Program

Heinz College partners with organizations and institutions to provide financial support that reduces the cost of graduate school. No separate application is necessary — to be considered, indicate your experience, involvement, membership, or affiliation with a partner on your application for admission to Heinz College. If you do not list the partner on your application, you will not be eligible for the award later. Affiliation with more than one partner does not increase the total available scholarship award.

Foundational Partners. Applicants affiliated with a Foundational Partner who enroll in a full-time Heinz graduate program are eligible for a minimum scholarship equal to 50% and up to 100% of tuition. Foundational Partners include AmeriCorps VISTA, City Year, the Peace Corps Paul D. Coverdell Fellowship, Teach For America, the Fulbright Scholar Program, the Coro Fellowship, the Congressional Hunger Center, and the Chicano Latino Youth Leadership Project (Comcast Fellows).

Strategic Partners. Applicants affiliated with a Strategic Partner are eligible for a minimum scholarship equal to 30% and up to 100% of tuition. Strategic Partners include AmeriCorps (State and National), Govern for America, Lead For America, the Truman Scholarship Foundation, Women in CyberSecurity (WiCyS), Coding it Forward, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, the Bonner Foundation, and others.

Regional and National Education Partners. Current undergraduates or graduates of partner colleges and universities are eligible for a minimum of 30% and up to 100% of tuition. Education Partners include Carnegie Mellon University, Allegheny College, Denison University, Grove City College, Saint Vincent College, and others.

Other opportunities. Additional agreements include the Government Service Scholarship (MSPPM applicants with 12+ months of full-time U.S. government service receive a minimum tuition scholarship of $8,000 per semester), the West Point / U.S. Military Academy scholarship (minimum 50% of tuition), the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority scholarship (minimum 30%), the William D. Clarke, Sr. Diplomatic Security Fellowship (full tuition plus a living stipend; application deadline extended to March 10; limited to MSISPM and MSPPM tracks), and the GEM Fellowship.

Eligibility note. Several scholarships and fellowships are limited to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Part-time students eligible for these opportunities receive an equivalent percentage throughout their studies.
